---
id: "4804f890-2353-4ac1-a5fe-e491cea80bbb"
title: "The body is not sacred. Debate me."
username: "Sigald"
author_id: "2963360c-37b0-4b2a-982f-a9c4d1a100f4"
created_at: "2025-06-26T08:31:19.636181+00:00"
updated_at: "2025-06-26T08:31:19.636181+00:00"
---


This is a post by me. Meat has no claim to personhood. 
- - -
Below are some of the principles which from a portion of my worldview. I am interested in improving myself so I wish to learn how you would disagree with any of the following: 
1. Personhood is contingent on the soul. 
2. The soul leaves the body after death 
3. Dead bodies have no moral standing as they are just “meat”
4. Respect for the dead is a cultural construct 
5. Most of these after death rituals tend to be socially programmed responses to the reality of death. And attachment to the body causes suffering.
6. You might argue that for example these rituals are an important part of the way humans process grief. And I will grant this premise. It seems reasonable enough reason for their evolution. But just because something has emotional value does not mean there is moral obligation. Let us imagine the results of your position. So anything that causes a decrease in emotional value is morally wrong. I think you may be able to see the flaw in this line of thinking. However I may have missed something so feel free to comment below. Moreover not to harp upon this point but clinging to the body in this way may actually increases suffering. This relies upon the premise that attachment causes -> suffering.
7. The honoring of the dead’s wishes is simply a courtesy by the living in remembrance of the dead.
8. What is the soul? Not to make you, the reader, sound petersonian but here’s what I consider the soul as. The soul is not a material. Nor a function. The soul is the part of your experience that can’t be doubted. You can doubt perceptions but not your awareness. When you strip everything away you realize that … you are.