---
id: "5044f107-d4d1-4ae4-b166-6717196038bd"
title: "My utter disappointment with this website"
username: "LuridSpectre"
author_id: "14bc4184-1892-4933-82d4-847138e45bc7"
created_at: "2025-07-16T05:11:35.06663+00:00"
updated_at: "2025-07-16T05:11:35.06663+00:00"
---

- - -
From Hell, to the maintainer of this website
- - -

Recently, I was of a mind to make a post about the interesting phenomena of the futility of modern virtue. But it seems I am instead wasting my breath on you. I am utterly disappointed with the fact that there is no option to add images to this website, nor do the annotations on the books work — I do appreciate the free books, though. Overall, the site UI is horrid. The post-reader is inconsistent. It is passable on desktop but horrid on mobile.
 
Why is there no markdown preview why do we only know how our posts appear to the observer until after posting. And why is there no upvote system? The tags only work for comments how useless. The only time I would want tags is to search through posts. Do you even use your own website?

On the chess portions only correspondence chess works! How boorish!
The LaTeX support for posts only supports in-line LaTeX — something like KaTeX should, in theory, support both.
Additionally, on the profiles page the chess Elo looks horrid, like someone let a five-year-old design it. Why? Why did you do so?

Also, while I would appreciate more expressivity in the dashboard for personal tasks, currently the options are simply to add files into your archive, add tasks that show up in your calendar, and it recommends a task to start with and gives you an ordering. How stupid!
Any competent personal organization system would employ a better system where, given an amount of time — say, two hours — it blocks out what tasks you should do for you and allows you to say what percentage you got done. The error logs are such a great disappointment that at this point I am not sure if I should even mention them. You can’t add or delete errors. Why push to prod if you can’t even finish your features? Tell me, explain to me why there is no flashcard system for the errors — come on.

Finally, to finish this: what differentiates this site? It is better in neither quality nor quantity than any site I have seen. It also seems the site has too many random, non-interconnected features. So I ask you: what sets this carcass apart? I see no spark, no cunning sinew threading one limb to the next — only random parts twitching in a cold dark. Stitch it together or bury it properly



- - -
I remain,
Yours in disappointment,
From Hell
 - - -
