---
id: "b2936438-e1f7-4d0a-a274-94d2a1ed8635"
title: "Evolution as a universal force"
username: "Sreek"
author_id: "400464a8-4ee8-46a9-b1a9-32eb94c8e7e5"
created_at: "2026-04-25T18:33:08.422779+00:00"
updated_at: "2026-04-25T18:33:08.422779+00:00"
---

Almost everyone has heard of Darwin's famous theory that natural variation of traits combines with an adverse competitive environment produces evolutionary selection. 

It is obvious that animals compete with other species --- humans are no different. But within human societies the same pattern emerges. Countries compete with each other, sometimes collaborating  when it is beneficial. Within countries, other human groups compete and vie for power even if the individuals do not have this goal. Societies face selection from economic, social, and political pressure and function as a system that grow their own power. 

Dawkins proposed that even ideas face selection; though ideas aren't conscious, they function practically as systems that attempt to propagate themselves by attempting to affect the behavior of human being(https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Meme). 

Moreover, systems are not in isolation but they are inter-connected and often dependent upon other systems. For example, the modern bovine cow is dependent upon the survival of the human race, and most grows itself by fitting itself to the desires of the human race. Similarly, many animals depend on the symbiotic relationship to other animals. As we create new technology, it functions as a self-propagating system as well one that we become increasingly dependent on. If all the oil refineries were to collapse, our economies and our power would soon collapse. As artificial intelligence as it grows more powerful, and our society more complex it seems logical that we would increasingly depend on a super-intelligent Artificial intelligence especially due to its superior ability to handle complex data. 
If we produce true artificial AI, perhaps even if there is an attempt to align it to the whims of humanity the artificial intelligence it is likely that the AI's that will most survive and grow are those that seek to dominate the world. 