---
id: "d8617e17-a933-49b8-b2b8-ec447c80159f"
title: "The Power Process"
username: "Sreek"
author_id: "400464a8-4ee8-46a9-b1a9-32eb94c8e7e5"
created_at: "2026-04-09T02:01:25.388641+00:00"
updated_at: "2026-04-09T02:01:25.388641+00:00"
---

My thoughts on morality have drifted so severely that I cannot in good faith call it "amoral egoism" anymore. 

In premise form the moral system is very simple, 
P1: for any moral system to have real authority it must have the ability to influence human behavior. 
A moral code needs to influence behavior to be effective
P2: "ought" only applies (has action guiding force) if it connects to a rational agents motivational set. It fails if it does not connect imagine telling a rock it ought to fall upward
P3: All moral systems based on external authority and motivational sources have variability eg. societal opinions can change. Therefore, the most sustained and variance-minimizing source of motivation must come from an internal source. 
P4: every moral system must have a telos, a target. And a target that sets a structural claim such as be self-directed is making a smaller claim than one that claims "maximize utility among all beings" for example. 
P5: Moral systems can either be context-externalist or internalist regardless of whether an individual adopts said system. The former, is a system where goals and criteria are external to the individual. The latter is where the individual is the source of the evaluation. 
P6: Applying all the previous premises an individual should then rationally ought to structure their moral life around conscious autonomously generated goal-pursuit. Because it represents the motivationally most reliable, and is telelogically less arbitrary than first order systems. 