---
id: "f3e355e6-1559-4c4a-934d-da6200b2d961"
title: "You can... just solve some of your problems"
username: "Sreek"
author_id: "400464a8-4ee8-46a9-b1a9-32eb94c8e7e5"
created_at: "2026-04-19T23:25:27.912888+00:00"
updated_at: "2026-04-19T23:25:27.912888+00:00"
---

For a long time, I have been annoyed with the ads on spotify music; In the middle of some relaxing music, comes an annoying blaring ad reminding me about the value of spotify premium. It took me about 20 minutes to solve a problem I have had for years --- My solution was to generate a csv to get my spotify songs and then a quick script in order to download the mp3's of the songs and a quick transfer to VLC mobile, where I can play my music with unmolested.

In retrospect, the problem was obvious but I didn't sit down and think of a solution for a long time. In fact, many problems in life have relatively obvious low-time investment solutions.

For these problems the problem isn't so much a solution but deciding to do something about it.  

This is, I believe, a mindset issue I mean the solution to improving it is also very simple.  

Simple does not mean easy but you just need to establish the feedback loop of

$$
\text{I wish X wasn't there or I wish X was there} \;\rightarrow\; \text{I will do X right now}
$$

Although this might make you prone to slight underthinking, it is a vital solution to using your initial motivation as an activation energy to jumpstart building the habit to solve X so even when motivation fades you will solve and do X.

If each small problem contributes let's say 2% annoyance over a long term that effect compounds, it's far better to stop these tiny problems now. Problems like lack of sleep, and noise etc. have simple known solutions--- It's up to you and me to implement them. 


